Thank you so much for joining me today.
I am so excited to talk about
web assembly, low level stuff,
assembly scripts, all the good stuff.
If I get stuff, I mean really,
really technical things.
Before we get to that, I should introduce
myself a bit more, like I said,
my name is Jem Young, that's me.
That is a real picture of me.
The lighting is photoshopped,
obviously, and the lasers.
Yeah, I think those are photoshop too,
but everything else is real.
I'm actually wearing this Raman outfit,
yeah, just a fun picture of me.
It's actually a Halloween costume that
I've never gotten a chance to wear.
So I just use this as my
profile picture everywhere.
Currently, I work as a senior
software engineer at Netflix,
where I work on growth infrastructure.
So pretty much I support UI engineers,
our future growth organization.
A lot of the long term
architecture projects.
That's kind of the way I
think about engineering.
But really, I think about all engineering
is what problem are we gonna solve and
how are we gonna solve it.
A lot of those problems don't
necessarily involve coding surprisingly,
a lot of problems are just operational or
a lot of problems are we're not thinking
about the issue, we're trying to
solve in the right frame of mind.
Anyways, that's, my engineering philosophy
we'll learn a lot more about my
philosophy over the course of
this intro to WebAssembly.
If you wanna find me on LinkedIn, I am on
Twitter at, or I'm on Twitter @Jim young.
I'm on LinkedIn too,
I'm not on there much.
I'm really thinking about becoming a
thought leader on LinkedIn, I don't know.
We'll see how that goes, it seems to
be a popular thing in Silicon Valley.
I live right now in Oakland, California,
which it's I like it here, I like you.
But I'm still in Silicon Valley, so you're
gonna hear lots of Silicon Valley memes,
me poking fun of my fellow
engineers who live here,
as I often do on a podcast that I'm
on called front end happy hour.
And that's a podcast where we talk about
all things front ends, overtricks,
just kind of a fun conversation.
And I like to think the podcast reflects
my own personal style about how
to teach to just the informal casual,
we're just a couple of friends.
I don't have a beer right now or
drink, but
just having a talk and we have
a conversation and we go back and forth.
So if you have questions feel free,
post in the chat,
send me questions to find a masters,
I love questions.
I try to get to them all.
I guarantee there will be things
you asked me and I won't know and
you're gonna watch me
Google like a madman.
That's part of being a senior engineers
and knowing how to Google things properly.
That's a secret,
that's a Silicon Valley insider secret for
my book coming out soon.
I do teach two other courses
on front end masters,
the first one is called full stack for
front end.
That's a two day course where
we cover literally everything.
We cover everything from a bit
of containers, we do AWS,
we do digitalocean, we do a lot of stuff.
And I know a lot of people
taking that course.
And there's people in the chat
that told me, hey, yeah,
that course actually helped me get a job,
which, honestly that's why I do this.
These things to make real impact
in people's lives that yeah,
that really makes me feel good.
I won't get emotional, it's a little
too early maybe later in the day.
I also teach a course called
interviewing for front end engineers.
We have a lot of fun that course too,
mostly because interviews are terrible.
I hate them,
probably more than anybody else.
So I wanna make a course for front
engineers about what are the types of
things you should expect, but also, what
is the best way to conduct an interview?
How do we give an interview so
that we're empathetic and
we really treat each other
with respect and we do that?
So I love those courses too, so
I'm very excited about introduction to
Web Assembly, hopefully it'll be
a new canon in my front of masters
Webassembly, it's a difficult topic,
I'm not gonna lie.
I know I shouldn't say that as a professor
or a teacher, I should say, it's easy, and
it's fun and it's intuitive and
you're gonna get it right off the bat.
And we're gonna build these awesome cool
things, but I'm not gonna lie to you.
This is a technical course,
this is a deeply technical course.
But,I promise when you come out the other
side, you will be a better engineer.
Even if you don't remember that
much from this course at all,
you will learn Cconcepts and
ways to apply those concepts.
It will make you a better engineer,
no matter what language you write.
I like to think of it as we're doctors.
We're doctors, we work on people, we have
some tools that help us diagnose when
there's issues and
failures and things like that.
But really,
we just know surface level things.
Now imagine if we were doctors,
we could dive in into someone,
we can dive into the literal DNA
of what makes us up, what we do.
That's what we're gonna do today.
We're gonna dive way down,
we're gonna dive down to binary,
and then we're gonna talk about assembly.
And then we're gonna talk
about high level programming,
and normally it's the other way around.
We write JavaScript.
JavaScript is the high level language that
gets compiled down to machine code which
gets compiled down into binary.
That's how we all know and love
programming and being in front engineer,
and going the other way, it's really
gonna change our perspective on things.
Honestly, you're probably gonna see me
nerd out about this stuff and it's gonna
be these low level micro architectures,
CPU instructions, that sort of thing.
And you're gonna be like, [SOUND] Jem,
when do we get into the coding?
We'll get there, but first we're gonna
lay a foundation of knowledge, so
that we all understand the same things,
because I'm gonna say some pretty well,
say very low level concepts, and
I really need you to understand them.
Otherwise, all the code we write
later today won't make any sense.